---
layout: post
title: 2019 Updates
modified:
categories: "2019"
excerpt:
tags: ["2019", "info"]
image:
  feature: mastheads/ncti-masthead-basket.png
  credit: Barrett Pantton Photography
  creditlink: https://www.facebook.com/burbleall
date: 2019-03-08T08:58:20-05:00
---

# 2019 NCTI is Almost Here!

We are getting close to this year's NCTI.  The course has seen a lot of work
and should be in great condition for this year's competition.  Hopefully we'll
have a number of dry days leading up this year so things won't be so soggy after
the extremely wet winter we've had this year.

Below you'll find the schedule and other important info.  Players should lean on
their captains for questions and information and Captains should come to me (stick)

This years teams and Captains are:
* GVGDC / Max Crotts
* Brunswick County / Kirk Yoo
* Unity/ JM Cutter (Halton)
* Pho-Cus / McCoy 
* Craven Chains / Kevin Gaskins
* Charlotte / Debbie Scott
* DFC / Brad Smith (hickory)
* Down East / Hope Brown (OG)

## Schedule

### Saturday

*8-9:30* - check-in @ the ClubHaus (little white house near hole 1)

Players should check-in with their captains, Captains should check-in with me.
Please have all your entries together as a team.

*9:30* - Players meeting

*10:00* - Matches 1 & 2

You'll play 2 matches back to back in the morning.  The groups are set such
that you play your second match against one of other the people in your group.
Since 1 match may last longer than the other, you should all stay together to
start the second match (and help with any calls that need to be made)  You
should start your second match on the next available hole.

*Lunch*

After the 2nd match we'll have a lunch break of about an hour.  There's not
much food around, it's about a 15m drive into town, so you probably want to
plan accordingly.

*After Lunch* - Matches 3 & 4

Both of these matches are played back to back.

### Sunday  

*9:00am* Matches 5 & 6 start

Following the conclusion of the round robin matches we'll have a short break
then teams qualifying for the semi's will have their matches.

Semi-finals will be followed by the finals.  There's no formal lunch break, but
depending on how long the Semi-finals take we'll work some time in to eat if
necessary.

## Payouts

We pay the 1st and 2nd place team.  We also pay the top team in each division.
There is a seed winner for the player with the best recored in each seed in each
division.  Seed payouts should be completed *after* the semi-finals are started
and will not be handed out before.


## Course rules

I've put all the hole rules and OB up on the NCTI website:
<http://www.miscellaneous.net/ncti/ncti-course-rules/> There should also be
sheets on any holes that have rules that need explaining, please don't hesitate
to ask any questions.  If there is any discrepancy between what's on the site
and what's on the hole sheets, the hole sheets take precedence.

Ladies will play from the Sorbet tees, *all* other divisions will play from the
regular tees.

## Scoring

All players should be familiar with the rules of match play.
The PDGA rules of match play (which we are using) are here:
<https://www.pdga.com/rules/official-rules-disc-golf/appendix-a>

Unlike other matchplay events where your team record is important, we use
points at NCTI.  Each match is worth 3 points, a tie is worth 1 point for each
team.  So every match matters for points, if your team goes 4-5 that's still 12
points (vs 15 for the other team).    

All matches should be reported as number of holes up, number of holes
remaining.  If you are tied in points with anther team those numbers are used
as tie breakers.  <http://www.miscellaneous.net/ncti/format/> As of right now all
matches will be 9 holes, as we're a little earlier in the year this year and I
don't want to run out of daylight.  I may change the Semis and/or Finals to 10
holes depending on the pace of play.

Players can and should report match results to me as they come in.  There's no
need to report back between match 1/2 (3/4 or 5/6) just give all the results
when you come in.  Players should also report their results to their captain.
If i'm missing a result I will turn to the captain to find out.  If I can't
find you or you don't know the result of one of your team matches I'll record
it as a L-5&4 (Loss 5 up with 4 to play, i.e. a skunk)
