---
layout: post
title: NCTI 2020 Is Upon Us
modified:
categories:
excerpt:
tags: [ "2020", "newteams" ]
image:
  feature: mastheads/ncti-masthead-basket.png
  credit: Barrett Pantton Photography
  creditlink: https://www.facebook.com/burbleall
date: 2020-01-16T12:36:26-05:00
---

# 2020 NCTI is Upon us!

All the invitations have been sent and the date is set.

Welcome to the 2 new teams this year, captained by Dave George and Jason Clark.

* When: March 21-22
* Where: Unity Farm


## New Guidelines for Invitations

There's always been the question of how new teams are invited to NCTI.  At it's
heart NCTI has always been an invitational event, however I want to be as transparent
as possible in the process.

Each year 8 teams are invited to compete. At the conclusion of the event each team
will have accumulated a certain number of points.  The 6 teams the have the most points
will be automatically invited back the following year (if they choose).  The 2 teams
with the fewest points are not uninvited but they have a probational invitation.

What this means is that if there are 1 or 2 teams that have been waiting to get in
they will be prioritied over the 2 bottom teams.  If there are no teams waiting
or able to come then those bottom teams will get an invitation.

Things that are considered when inviting a team.
* Do they represent an area/region/etc that hasn't been represented before?
  * We try to avoid many teams from the same area
* Will they represent the Team Disc Golf concept approriately
  * NCTI is a pro-level event
  * NCTI is a team event
* Is the captain reliable and easy to work with
  * Can you deal with the team, and deal with me :)

Hopefully this clears up things, if you are interested in being considered for
a team contact Stick.

